
whisper. He holds my gaze for a long moment then lets me go. I loosen the top of the pouch and pour a few spoonfuls of berries into his palm. Then I fill my own. On the count of three? Peeta leans down and kisses me once, very gently. The count of three, he says. We stand, our backs pressed together, our empty hands locked tight. Hold them out. I want everyone to see, he says. I spread out my fingers, and the dark berries glisten in the sun. I give Peetas hand one last squeeze as a signal, as a good-bye, and we begin counting. One. Maybe Im wrong. Two. Maybe they dont care if we both die. Three! Its too late to change my mind. I lift my hand to my mouth, taking one last look at the world. The berries have just passed my lips when the trumpets begin to blare. The frantic voice of Claudius Templesmith shouts above them. Stop! Stop! Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to present the victors of the Seventy-fourth Hunger Games, Katniss Everdeen and Peeta Mellark! I give you the tributes of District Twelve!

26.

I spew the berries from my mouth, wiping my tongue with the end of my shirt to make sure no juice remains. Peeta pulls me to the lake where we both flush our mouths with water and then collapse into each others arms. You didnt swallow any? I ask him. He shakes his head. You? Guess Id be dead by now if I did, I say. I can see his lips moving in reply, but I cant hear him over the roar of the crowd in the Capitol that theyre playing live over the speakers. The hovercraft materializes overhead and two ladders drop, only theres no way Im letting go of Peeta. I keep one arm around him as I help him up, and we each place a foot on the first rung of the ladder. The electric current freezes us in place, and this time Im glad because Im not really sure Peeta can hang on for the whole ride. And since my eyes were looking down, I can see that while our muscles are immobile, nothing is preventing the blood from draining out of Peetas leg. Sure enough, the minute the door closes behind us and the current stops, he slumps to the floor unconscious. My fingers are

still gripping the back of his jacket so tightly that when they take him away it tears leaving me with a fistful of black fabric. Doctors in sterile white, masked and

gloved, already prepped to operate, go into action. Peetas so pale and still on a silver table, tubes and wires springing out of him every which way, and for a moment I forget were out of the Games and I see the doctors as just one more threat, one more pack of mutts designed to kill him. Petrified, I lunge for him, but Im caught and thrust back into another room, and a glass door seals between us. I pound on the glass, screaming my head off. Everyone ignores me except for some Capitol attendant who appears behind me and offers me a beverage. I slump down on the floor, my face against the door, staring uncomprehendingly at the crystal glass in my hand. Icy cold, filled with orange juice, a straw with a frilly white collar. How wrong it looks in my bloody, filthy hand with its dirt-caked nails and scars. My mouth waters at the smell, but I place it carefully on the floor, not trusting anything so clean and pretty. Through the glass, I see the doctors working feverishly on Peeta, their brows creased in concentration. I see the flow of liquids, pumping through the tubes, watch a wall of dials and lights that mean nothing to me. Im not sure, but I think his heart stops twice. Its like being home again, when they bring in the hopelessly mangled person from the mine explosion, or the woman in her third day of labor, or the famished

child struggling against pneumonia and my mother and Prim, they wear that same look on their faces. Now is the time to run away to the woods, to hide in the trees until the patient is long gone and in another part of the Seam the hammers make the coffin. But Im held here both by the hovercraft walls and the same force that holds the loved ones of the dying. How often Ive seen them, ringed around our kitchen table and I thought, Why dont they leave? Why do they stay to watch? And now I know. Its because you have no choice. I startle when I catch someone staring at me from only a few inches away and then realize its my own face reflecting back in the glass. Wild eyes, hollow cheeks, my hair in a tangled mat. Rabid. Feral. Mad. No wonder everyone is keeping a safe distance from me. The next thing I know weve landed back on the roof of the Training Center and theyre taking Peeta but leaving me behind the door. I start hurling myself against the glass, shrieking and I think I just catch a glimpse of pink hair it must be Effie, it has to be Effie coming to my rescue when the needle jabs me from behind. When I wake, Im afraid to move at first. The entire ceiling glows with a soft yellow light allowing me to see that Im in a room containing just my bed. No doors, no windows are visible. The air smells of

something sharp and antiseptic. My right arm has several tubes that extend into the wall behind me. Im naked, but the bedclothes arc soothing against my skin. I

tentatively lift my left hand above the cover. Not only has it been scrubbed clean, the nails are filed in perfect ovals, the scars from the burns are less prominent. I touch my cheek, my lips, the puckered scar above my eyebrow, and am just running my fingers through my silken hair when I freeze. Apprehensively I ruffle the hair by my left ear. No, it wasnt an illusion. I can hear again. I try and sit up, but some sort of wide restraining band around my waist keeps me from rising more than a few inches. The physical confinement makes me panic and Im trying to pull myself up and wriggle my hips through the band when a portion of the wall slides open and in steps the redheaded Avox girl carrying a tray. The sight of her calms me and I stop trying to escape. I want to ask her a million questions, but Im afraid any familiarity would cause her harm. Obviously I am being closely monitored. She sets the tray across my thighs and presses something that raises me to a sitting position. While she adjusts my pillows, I risk one question. I say it out loud, as clearly as my rusty voice

will allow, so nothing will seem secretive. Did Peeta make it? She gives me a nod, and as she slips a spoon into my hand, I feel the pressure of friendship. I guess she did not wish me dead after all. And Peeta has made it. Of course, he did. With all their expensive equipment here. Still, I hadnt been sure until now. As the Avox leaves, the door closes noiselessly after her and I turn hungrily to the tray. A bowl of clear broth, a small serving of applesauce, and a glass of water. This is it? I think grouchily. Shouldnt my homecoming dinner be a little more spectacular? But I find its an effort to finish the spare meal before me. My stomach seems to have shrunk to the size of a chestnut, and I have to wonder how long Ive been out because I had no trouble eating a fairly sizable breakfast that last morning in the arena. Theres usually a lag of a few days between the end of the competition and the presentation of the victor so that they can put the starving, wounded, mess of a person back together again. Somewhere, Cinna and Portia will be creating our wardrobes for the public appearances. Haymitch and Effie will be arranging the banquet for our sponsors, reviewing the questions for our final interviews. Back home, District 12 is probably in chaos as they try and organize the homecoming celebrations for Peeta and me, given

that the last one was close to thirty years ago. Home! Prim and my mother! Gale! Even the thought of Prims scruffy old cat makes me smile. Soon I will be home! I want to get out of this bed. To see Peeta and Cinna, to find out more about whats been going on. And why shouldnt I? I feel fine. But as I start to work my way out of the band, I feel a cold liquid seeping into my vein from one of the tubes and almost immediately lose consciousness. This happens on and off for an indeterminate amount of time. My waking, eating, and, even though I resist the impulse

to try and escape the bed, being knocked out again. I seem to be in a strange, continual twilight. Only a few things register. The redheaded Avox girl has not returned since the feeding, my scars are disappearing, and do I imagine it? Or do I hear a mans voice yelling? Not in the Capitol accent, but in the rougher cadences of home. And I cant help having a vague, comforting feeling that someone is looking out for me. Then finally, the time arrives when I come to and theres nothing plugged into my right arm. The restraint around my middle has been removed and I am free to move about. I start to sit up but am arrested by the sight of my hands. The skins

perfection, smooth and glowing. Not only are the scars from the arena gone, but those accumulated over years of hunting have vanished without a trace. My forehead feels like satin, and when I try to find the burn on my calf, theres nothing. I slip my legs out of bed, nervous about how they will bear my weight and find them strong and steady. Lying at the foot of the bed is an outfit that makes me flinch. Its what all of us tributes wore in the arena. I stare at it as if it had teeth until I remember that, of course, this is what I will wear to greet my team. Im dressed in less than a minute and fidgeting in front of the wall where I know theres a door even if I cant see it when suddenly it slides open. I step into a wide, deserted hall that appears to have no other doors on it. But it must. And behind one of them must be Peeta. Now that Im conscious and moving, Im growing more and more anxious about him. He must be all right or the Avox girl wouldnt have said so. But I need to see him for myself. Peeta! I call out, since theres no one to ask. I hear my name in response, but its not his voice. Its a voice that provokes first irritation and then eagerness. Effie. I turn and see them all waiting in a big chamber at the end of the hall Effie, Haymitch, and Cinna. My feet take off without hesitation. Maybe a victor should show more restraint, more

superiority, especially when she knows this will be on tape, but I dont care. I run for them and surprise even myself when I launch into Haymitchs arms first. When he whispers in my ear, Nice job, sweetheart, it doesnt sound sarcastic. Effies somewhat teary and keeps patting my hair and talking about how she told everyone we were pearls. Cinna just hugs me tight and doesnt say anything. Then I notice Portia is absent and get a bad feeling. Wheres Portia? Is she with Peeta? He is all right, isnt he? I mean, hes alive? I blurt out. Hes fine. Only they want to do your reunion live on air at the ceremony, says Haymitch. Oh. Thats all, I say. The awful moment of thinking Peetas dead again passes. I guess Id want to see that myself. Go on with Cinna. He has to get you ready, says Haymitch. Its a relief to be alone with Cinna, to feel his protective arm around my shoulders as he guides me away from the cameras, down a few passages and to an elevator that leads to the

lobby of the Training Center. The hospital then is far underground, even beneath the gym where the tributes practiced tying knots and throwing spears. The windows of the lobby are darkened, and a handful of guards stand on duty. No one

else is there to see us cross to the tribute elevator. Our footsteps echo in the emptiness. And when we ride up to the twelfth floor, the faces of all the tributes who will never return flash across my mind and theres a heavy, tight place in my chest. When the elevator doors open, Venia, Flavius, and Octavia engulf me, talking so quickly and ecstatically I cant make out their words. The sentiment is clear though. They are truly thrilled to see me and Im happy to see them, too, although not like I was to see Cinna. Its more in the way one might be glad to see an affectionate trio of pets at the end of a particularly difficult day. They sweep me into the dining room and I get a real meal roast beef and peas and soft rolls although my portions are still being strictly controlled. Because when I ask for seconds, Im refused. No, no, no. They dont want it all coming back up on the stage, says Octavia, but she secretly slips me an extra roll under the table to let me know shes on my side. We go back to my room and Cinna disappears for a while as the prep team gets me ready. Oh, they did a full body polish on you, says Flavius enviously. Not a flaw left on your skin. But when I look at my naked body in the mirror, all I can see is how skinny I am. I mean, Im sure I was worse when I came out of the arena, but I can easily count my ribs. They take

care of the shower settings for me, and they go to work on my hair, nails, and makeup when Im done. They chatter so continuously that I barely have to reply, which is good, since I dont feel very talkative. Its funny, because even though theyre rattling on about the Games, its all about where they were or what they were doing or how they felt when a specific event occurred. I was still in bed! I had just had my eyebrows dyed! I swear I nearly fainted! Everything is about them, not the dying boys and girls in the arena. We dont wallow around in the Games this way in District 12. We grit our teeth and watch because we must and try to get back to business as soon as possible when theyre over. To keep from hating the prep team, I effectively tune out most of what theyre saying. Cinna comes in with what appears to be an unassuming yellow dress across his arms. Have you given up the whole girl on fire thing? I ask. You tell me, he says, and slips it over my head. I immediately notice the padding over my breasts, adding curves that hunger has stolen from my body. My hands go to my chest and I frown. I know, says Cinna before I can object. But the Gamemakers wanted to alter you surgically. Haymitch had a huge fight with them over it. This was the compromise. He stops me before I can look at my reflection.

Wait, dont forget the shoes. Venia helps me into a pair of flat leather sandals and I

turn to the mirror. I am still the girl on fire. The sheer fabric softly glows. Even the slight movement in the air sends a ripple up my body. By comparison, the chariot costume seems garish, the interview dress too contrived. In this dress, I give the illusion of wearing candlelight. What do you think? asks Cinna. I think its the best yet, I say. When I manage to pull my eyes away from the flickering fabric, Im in for something of a shock. My hairs loose, held back by a simple hairband. The makeup rounds and fills out the sharp angles of my face. A clear polish coats my nails. The sleeveless dress is gathered at my ribs, not my waist, largely eliminating any help the padding would have given my figure. The hem falls just to my knees. Without heels, you can see my true stature. I look, very simply, like a girl. A young one. Fourteen at the most. Innocent. Harmless. Yes, it is shocking that Cinna has pulled this off when you remember Ive just won the Games. This is a very calculated look. Nothing Cinna designs is arbitrary. I bite my lip trying to figure out his motivation. I thought itd be something more . . . Sophisticated-looking, I say. I thought Peeta would like this

better, he answers carefully. Peeta? No, its not about Peeta. Its about the Capitol and the Gamemakers and the audience. Although I do not yet understand Cinnas design, its a reminder the Games are not quite finished. And beneath his benign reply, I sense a warning. Of something he cant even mention in front of his own team. We take the elevator to the level where we trained. Its customary for the victor and his or her support team to rise from beneath the stage. First the prep team, followed by the escort, the stylist, the mentor, and finally the victor. Only this year, with two victors who share both an escort and a mentor, the whole thing has had to be rethought. I find myself in a poorly lit area under the stage. A brand-new metal plate has been installed to transport me upward. You can still see small piles of sawdust, smell fresh paint. Cinna and the prep team peel off to change into their own costumes and take their positions, leaving me alone. In the gloom, I see a makeshift wall about ten yards away and assume Peetas behind it. The rumbling of the crowd is loud, so I dont notice Haymitch until he touches my shoulder. I spring away, startled, still half in the arena, I guess. Easy, just me. Lets have a look at you, Haymitch says. I hold out my arms and turn once. Good enough. Its not much of a

compliment. But what? I say. Haymitchs eyes shift around my musty holding space, and he seems to make a decision. But nothing. How about a hug for luck? Okay, thats an odd request from Haymitch but, after all, we are victors. Maybe a hug for luck is in order. Only, when I put my arms around his neck, I find myself trapped in his embrace. He begins talking, very fast, very quietly in my ear, my hair concealing his lips. Listen up. Youre in trouble. Word is the Capitols furious about

you showing them up in the arena. The one thing they cant stand is being laughed at and theyre the joke of Panem, says Haymitch. I feel dread coursing through me now, but I laugh as though Haymitch is saying something completely delightful because nothing is covering my mouth. So, what? Your only defense can be you were so madly in love you werent responsible for your actions. Haymitch pulls back and adjusts my hairband. Got it, sweetheart? He could be talking about anything now. Got it, I say. Did you tell Peeta this? Dont have to, says Haymitch. Hes already there. But you think Im not? I say, taking the opportunity to straighten a bright red bow tie Cinna must have wrestled him into. Since when does it matter what I think?

says Haymitch. Better take our places. He leads me to the metal circle. This is your night, sweetheart. Enjoy it. He kisses me on the forehead and disappears into the gloom. I tug on my skirt, willing it to be longer, wanting it to cover the knocking in my knees. Then I realize its pointless. My whole bodys shaking like a leaf. Hopefully, it will be put down to excitement. After all, its my night. The damp, moldy smell beneath the stage threatens to choke me. A cold, clammy sweat breaks out on my skin and I cant rid myself of the feeling that the boards above my head are about to collapse, to bury me alive under the rubble. When I left the arena, when the trumpets played, I was supposed to be safe. From then on. For the rest of my life. But if what Haymitch says is true, and hes got no reason to lie, Ive never been in such a dangerous place in my life. Its so much worse than being hunted in the arena. There, I could only die. End of story. But out here Prim, my mother, Gale, the people of District 12, everyone I care about back home could be punished if I cant pull off the girl-driven-crazy-by-love scenario Haymitch has suggested. So I still have a chance, though. Funny, in the arena, when I poured out those berries, I was only thinking of outsmarting the Gamemakers, not how my actions would reflect on the Capitol. But

the Hunger Games are their weapon and you are not supposed to be able to defeat it. So now the Capitol will act as if theyve been in control the whole time. As if they orchestrated the whole event, right down to the double suicide. But that will only work if I play along with them. And Peeta . . . Peeta will suffer, too, if this goes wrong. But what was it Haymitch said when I asked if he had told Peeta the situation? That he had to pretend to be desperately in love? Dont have to. Hes already there. Already thinking ahead of me in the Games again and well aware of the danger were in? Or . . . Already desperately in love? I dont know. I havent even begun to separate out my feelings about Peeta. Its too complicated. What I did as part of the Games. As opposed to what I did out of anger at the Capitol. Or because of how it would be viewed back in District 12. Or simply because it was the only decent thing to do.

Or what I did because I cared about him. These are questions to be unraveled back home, in the peace and quiet of the woods, when no one is watching. Not here with every eye upon me. But I wont have that luxury for who knows how long. And right now, the most dangerous part of the Hunger Games is about to begin.

27.

The anthem booms in my ears, and then I hear Caesar Flickerman greeting the audience. Does he know how crucial it is to get every word right from now on? He must. He will want to help us. The crowd breaks into applause as the prep teams are presented. I imagine Flavius, Venia, and Octavia bouncing around and taking ridiculous, bobbing bows. Its a safe bet theyre clueless. Then Effies introduced. How long shes waited for this moment. I hope shes able to enjoy it because as misguided as Effie can be, she has a very keen instinct about certain things and must at least suspect were in trouble. Portia and Cinna receive huge cheers, of course, theyve been brilliant, had a dazzling debut. I now understand Cinnas choice of dress for me for tonight. Ill need to look as girlish and innocent as possible. Haymitchs appearance brings a round of stomping that goes on at least five minutes. Well, hes accomplished a first. Keeping not only one but two tributes alive. What if he hadnt warned me in time? Would I have acted differently? Flaunted the moment with the berries in the Capitols face? No, I dont think so. But I could easily have been a lot less convincing

than I need to be now. Right now. Because I can feel the plate lifting me up to the stage. Blinding lights. The deafening roar rattles the metal under my feet. Then theres Peeta just a few yards away. He looks so clean and healthy and beautiful, I can hardly recognize him. But his smile is the same whether in mud or in the Capitol and when I see it, I take about three steps and fling myself into his arms. He staggers back, almost losing his balance, and thats when I realize the slim, metal contraption in his hand is some kind of cane. He rights himself and we just cling to each other while the audience goes insane. Hes kissing me and all the time Im thinking, Do you know? Do you know how much danger were in? After about ten minutes of this, Caesar Flickerman taps on his shoulder to continue the show, and Peeta just pushes him aside without even glancing at him. The audience goes berserk. Whether he knows or not, Peeta is, as usual, playing the crowd exactly right. Finally, Haymitch interrupts us and gives us a good-natured shove toward the victors chair. Usually, this is a single, ornate chair from which the winning tribute watches a film of the highlights of the Games, but since there are two of us, the Gamemakers have provided a plush red velvet couch. A small one, my mother would call it a love seat, I think. I sit so close

to Peeta that Im practically on his lap, but one look from Haymitch tells me it isnt enough. Kicking off my sandals, I tuck my feet to the side and lean my head against

Peetas shoulder. His arm goes around me automatically, and I feel like Im back in the cave, curled up against him, trying to keep warm. His shirt is made of the same yellow material as my dress, but Portias put him in long black pants. No sandals, either, but a pair of sturdy black boots he keeps solidly planted on the stage. I wish Cinna had given me a similar outfit, I feel so vulnerable in this flimsy dress. But I guess that was the point. Caesar Flickerman makes a few more jokes, and then its time for the show. This will last exactly three hours and is required viewing for all of Panem. As the lights dim and the seal appears on the screen, I realize Im unprepared for this. I do not want to watch my twenty-two fellow tributes die. I saw enough of them die the first time. My heart starts pounding and I have a strong impulse to run. How have the other victors faced this alone? During the highlights, they periodically show the winners reaction up on a box in the corner of the screen. I think back to earlier years . . . Some are triumphant, pumping their fists in the air, beating their

chests. Most just seem stunned. All I know is that the only thing keeping me on this love seat is Peeta his arm around my shoulder, his other hand claimed by both of mine. Of course, the previous victors didnt have the Capitol looking for a way to destroy them. Condensing several weeks into three hours is quite a feat, especially when you consider how many cameras were going at once. Whoever puts together the highlights has to choose what sort of story to tell. This year, for the first time, they tell a love story. I know Peeta and I won, but a disproportionate amount of time is spent on us, right from the beginning. Im glad though, because it supports the whole crazy-in-love thing thats my defense for defying the Capitol, plus it means we wont have as much time to linger over the deaths. The first half hour or so focuses on the pre-arena events, the reaping, the chariot ride through the Capitol, our training scores, and our interviews. Theres this sort of upbeat soundtrack playing under it that makes it twice as awful because, of course, almost everyone on-screen is dead. Once were in the arena, theres detailed coverage of the bloodbath and then the filmmakers basically alternate between shots of tributes dying and shots of us. Mostly Peeta really, theres no question hes carrying this romance thing on his shoulders.

Now I see what the audience saw, how he misled the Careers about me, stayed awake the entire night under the tracker jacker tree, fought Cato to let me escape and even while he lay in that mud bank, whispered my name in his sleep. I seem heartless in comparison dodging fireballs, dropping nests, and blowing up supplies until I go hunting for Rue. They play her death in full, the spearing, my failed rescue attempt, my arrow through the boy from District 1s throat, Rue drawing her last breath in my arms. And the song. I get to sing every note of the song.

Something inside me shuts down and Im too numb to feel anything. Its like watching complete strangers in another Hunger Games. But I do notice they omit the part where I covered her in flowers. Right. Because even that smacks of rebellion. Things pick up for me once theyve announced two tributes from the same district can live and I shout out Peetas name and then clap my hands over my mouth. If Ive seemed indifferent to him earlier, I make up for it now, by finding him, nursing him back to health, going to the feast for the medicine, and being very free with my kisses. Objectively, I can see the mutts and Catos death are as gruesome as ever, but again, I

feel it happens to people I have never met. And then comes the moment with the berries. I can hear the audience hushing one another, not wanting to miss anything. A wave of gratitude to the filmmakers sweeps over me when they end not with the announcement of our victory, but with me pounding on the glass door of the hovercraft, screaming Peetas name as they try to revive him. In terms of survival, its my best moment all night. The anthems playing yet again and we rise as President Snow himself takes the stage followed by a little girl carrying a cushion that holds the crown. Theres just one crown, though, and you can hear the crowds confusion whose head will he place it on? until President Snow gives it a twist and it separates into two halves. He places the first around Peetas brow with a smile. Hes still smiling when he settles the second on my head, but his eyes, just inches from mine, are as unforgiving as a snakes. Thats when I know that even though both of us would have eaten the berries, I am to blame for having the idea. Im the instigator. Im the one to be punished. Much bowing and cheering follows. My arm is about to fall off from waving when Caesar Flickerman finally bids the audience good night, reminding them to tune in tomorrow for the final interviews. As if they have a choice. Peeta and I are whisked

to the presidents mansion for the Victory Banquet, where we have very little time to eat as Capitol officials and particularly generous sponsors elbow one another out of the way as they try to get their picture with us. Face after beaming face flashes by, becoming increasingly intoxicated as the evening wears on. Occasionally, I catch a glimpse of Haymitch, which is reassuring, or President Snow, which is terrifying, but I keep laughing and thanking people and smiling as my picture is taken. The one thing I never do is let go of Peetas hand. The sun is just peeking over the horizon when we straggle back to the twelfth floor of the Training Center. I think now Ill finally get a word alone with Peeta, but Haymitch sends him off with Portia to get something fitted for the interview and personally escorts me to my door. Why cant I talk to him? I ask. Plenty of time for talk when we get home, says Haymitch. Go to bed, youre on air at two. Despite Haymitchs running interference, Im

determined to see Peeta privately. After I toss and turn for a few hours, I slip into the hall. My first thought is to check the roof, but its empty. Even the city streets far below are deserted after the celebration last night. I go back to bed for a while and

then decide to go directly to his room, but when I try to turn the knob, I find my own bedroom door has been locked from the outside. I suspect Haymitch initially, but then theres a more insidious fear that the Capitol may by monitoring and confining me. Ive been unable to escape since the Hunger Games began, but this feels different, much more personal. This feels like Ive been imprisoned for a crime and Im awaiting sentencing. I quickly get back in bed and pretend to sleep until Effie Trinket comes to alert me to the start of another big, big, big day! I have about five minutes to eat a bowl of hot grain and stew before the prep team descends. All I have to say is, The crowd loved you! and its unnecessary to speak for the next couple of hours. When Cinna comes in, he shoos them out and dresses me in a white, gauzy dress and pink shoes. Then he personally adjusts my makeup until I seem to radiate a soft, rosy glow. We make idle chitchat, but Im afraid to ask him anything of real importance because after the incident with the door, I cant shake the feeling that Im being watched constantly. The interview takes place right down the hall in the sitting room. A space has been cleared and the love seat has been moved in and surrounded by vases of red and pink roses. There are only a handful of cameras to record the

event. No live audience at least. Caesar Flickerman gives me a warm hug when I. Come in. Congratulations, Katniss. How are you faring? Fine. Nervous about the interview, I say. Dont be. Were going to have a fabulous time, he says, giving my cheek a reassuring pat. Im not good at talking about myself, I say. Nothing you say will be wrong, he says. And I think, Oh, Caesar, if only that were true. But actually, President Snow may be arranging some sort of accident for me as we speak. Then Peetas there looking handsome in red and white, pulling me off to the side. I hardly get to see you. Haymitch seems bent on keeping us apart. Haymitch is actually bent on keeping us alive, but there are too many ears listening, so I just say, Yes, hes gotten very responsible lately. Well, theres just this and we go home. Then he cant watch us all the time, says Peeta. I feel a sort of shiver run through me and theres no time to analyze why, because theyre ready for us. We sit somewhat formally on the love seat, but Caesar says, Oh, go ahead and curl up next to him if you want. It looked very sweet. So I tuck my feet up and Peeta pulls me in close to him. Someone counts backward and just like that, were being broadcast live to the entire country. Caesar Flickerman is wonderful, teasing, joking, getting choked up when the occasion

presents itself. He and Peeta already have the rapport they established

that night of the first interview, that easy banter, so I just smile a lot and try to speak as little as possible. I mean, I have to talk some, but as soon as I can I redirect the conversation back to Peeta. Eventually though, Caesar begins to pose questions that insist on fuller answers. Well, Peeta, we know, from our days in the cave, that it was love at first sight for you from what, age five? Caesar says. From the moment I laid eyes on her, says Peeta. But, Katniss, what a ride for you. I think the real excitement for the audience was watching you fall for him. When did you realize you were in love with him? asks Caesar. Oh, thats a hard one . . . I give a faint, breathy laugh and look down at my hands. Help. Well, I know when it hit me. The night when you shouted out his name from that tree, says Caesar. Thank you, Caesar! I think, and then go with his idea. Yes, I guess that was it. I mean, until that point, I just tried not to think about what my feelings might be, honestly, because it was so confusing and it only made things worse if I actually cared about him. But then, in the tree, everything changed, I say. Why do you think that was? urges Caesar. Maybe . . .

Because for the first time . . . There was a chance I could keep him, I say. Behind a cameraman, I see Haymitch give a sort of huff with relief and I know Ive said the right thing. Caesar pulls out a handkerchief and has to take a moment because hes so moved. I can feel Peeta press his forehead into my temple and he asks, So now that youve got me, what are you going to do with me? I turn in to him. Put you somewhere you cant get hurt. And when he kisses me, people in the room actually sigh. For Caesar, this is a natural place to segue into all the ways we did get hurt in the arena, from burns, to stings, to wounds. But its not until we get around to the mutts that I forget Im on camera. When Caesar asks Peeta how his new leg is working out. New leg? I say, and I cant help reaching out and pulling up the bottom of Peetas pants. Oh, no, I whisper, taking in the metal-and-plastic device that has replaced his flesh. No one told you? asks Caesar gently. I shake my head. I havent had the chance, says Peeta with a slight shrug. Its my fault, I say. Because I used that tourniquet. Yes, its your fault Im alive, says Peeta. Hes right, says Caesar. Hed have bled to death for sure without it. I guess this is true, but I cant help feeling upset about it to the extent that Im afraid I might cry and then I remember everyone in the country is watching

me so I just bury my face in Peetas shirt. It takes them a couple of minutes to coax me back out because its better in the shirt, where no one can see me, and when I do come out, Caesar backs off questioning me so I can recover. In fact, he pretty much leaves me alone until the berries come up. Katniss, I know youve had a shock, but Ive got to ask. The moment when you pulled out those berries. What was going on in your mind . . . Hm? he says. I take

a long pause before I answer, trying to collect my thoughts. This is the crucial moment where I either challenged the Capitol or went so crazy at the idea of losing Peeta that I cant be held responsible for my actions. It seems to call for a big, dramatic speech, but all I get out is one almost inaudible sentence. I dont know, I just . . . Couldnt bear the thought of . . . Being without him. Peeta? Anything to add? asks Caesar. No. I think that goes for both of us, he says. Caesar signs off and its over. Everyones laughing and crying and hugging, but Im still not sure until I reach Haymitch. Okay? I whisper. Perfect, he answers. I go back to my room to collect a few things and find theres nothing to take but the mockingjay pin Madge gave me.

Someone returned it to my room after the Games. They drive us through the streets in a car with blackened windows, and the trains waiting for us. We barely have time to say good-bye to Cinna and Portia, although well see them in a few months, when we tour the districts for a round of victory ceremonies. Its the Capitols way of reminding people that the Hunger Games never really go away. Well be given a lot of useless plaques, and everyone will have to pretend they love us. The train begins moving and were plunged into night until we clear the tunnel and I take my first free breath since the reaping. Effie is accompanying us back and Haymitch, too, of course. We eat an enormous dinner and settle into silence in front of the television to watch a replay of the interview. With the Capitol growing farther away every second, I begin to think of home. Of Prim and my mother. Of Gale. I excuse myself to change out of my dress and into a plain shirt and pants. As I slowly, thoroughly wash the makeup from my face and put my hair in its braid, I begin transforming back into myself. Katniss Everdeen. A girl who lives in the Seam. Hunts in the woods. Trades in the Hob. I stare in the mirror as I try to remember who I am and who I am not. By the time I join the others, the pressure of Peetas arm around my shoulders feels alien.

When the train makes a brief stop for fuel, were allowed to go outside for some fresh air. Theres no longer any need to guard us. Peeta and I walk down along the track, hand in hand, and I cant find anything to say now that were alone. He stops to gather a bunch of wildflowers for me. When he presents them, I work hard to look pleased. Because he cant know that the pink-and-white flowers are the tops of wild onions and only remind me of the hours Ive spent gathering them with Gale. Gale. The idea of seeing Gale in a matter of hours makes my stomach churn. But why? I cant quite frame it in my mind. I only know that I feel like Ive been lying to someone who trusts me. Or more accurately, to two people. Ive been getting away with it up to this point because of the Games. But there will be no Games to hide behind back home. Whats wrong? Peeta asks. Nothing, I answer. We continue walking, past the end of

the train, out where even Im fairly sure there are no cameras hidden in the scrubby bushes along the track. Still no words come. Haymitch startles me when he lays a hand on my back. Even now, in the middle of nowhere, he keeps his voice down. Great job, you two. Just keep it up in the district until the cameras are gone.

We should be okay. I watch him head back to the train, avoiding Peetas eyes. Whats he mean? Peeta asks me. Its the Capitol. They didnt like our stunt with the berries, I blurt out. What? What are you talking about? he says. It seemed too rebellious. So, Haymitch has been coaching me through the last few days. So I didnt make it worse, I say. Coaching you? But not me, says Peeta. He knew you were smart enough to get it right, I say. I didnt know there was anything to get right, says Peeta. So, what youre saying is, these last few days and then I guess . . . Back in the arena . . . That was just some strategy you two worked out. No. I mean, I couldnt even talk to him in the arena, could I? I stammer. But you knew what he wanted you to do, didnt you? says Peeta. I bite my lip. Katniss? He drops my hand and I take a step, as if to catch my balance. It was all for the Games, Peeta says. How you acted. Not all of it, I say, tightly holding onto my flowers. Then how much? No, forget that. I guess the real question is whats going to be left when we get home? he says. I dont know. The closer we get to District Twelve, the more confused I get, I say. He waits, for further explanation, but nones forthcoming. Well, let me know when you work it out, he says, and the pain in his voice is palpable. I know my ears are healed because, even with the rumble of the engine, I can hear every step he takes back to the train. By the time Ive climbed aboard, Peeta has disappiared into his room for the night. I dont see him the next morning, either. In fact, the next time he turns up, were pulling into District 12. He gives me a nod, his face expressionless. I want to tell him that hes not being fair. That we were strangers. That I did what it took to stay alive, to keep us both alive in the arena. That I cant explain how things are with Gale because I dont know myself. That its no good loving me because Im never going to get married anyway and hed just end up hating me later instead of sooner. That if I do have feelings for him, it doesnt matter because Ill never be able to afford the kind of love that leads to a family, to children. And how can he? How can he after what weve just been through? I also want to tell him how much I already miss him. But that wouldnt be fair on my part. So we just stand there silently, watching our grimy little station rise up around us. Through the window, I can see the platforms thick with cameras. Everyone will be eagerly watching our homecoming. Out of the corner of my eye, I see Peeta extend his hand. I look at him, unsure. One more time? For the audience? he says. His voice isnt angry. Its hollow, which is worse.


Already the boy with the bread is slipping away from me. I take his hand, holding on tightly, preparing for the cameras, and dreading the moment when I will finally have to let go.

END OF BOOK ONE



